The first thing I'm going to do is make sure that I have Kafka and Spark running.
I'm going to type ps dash ef.
From here I can see a few different things happening.
Here I see spark running.
Here, I see spark again.
One of these is my master and one of them is the worker.
That means we have spark up.
I also see several other Java processes,
which are my Kafka, different workers.
Kafka is running and Spark,
so we're good to go.
I've already imported my SparkSession library,
so I'm going to get going creating that SparkSession.
Spark is going to be equal my SparkSession dot builder dot appName.
Here I'm going to just name it
the gear position because that's the name of the topic that I'm going to be querying.
Then I'm going to say get or Create.
Now I'm going to set the log level,
and we're going to make that just minimal information that we want.
Now I'm going to start talking to Kafka,
and I'm going to ask for a new data frame.
We're going to give that a name,
call it Gear Position Raw Streaming DF.
I need to access my SparkSession to connect to Kafka.
I'm getting to the read stream on my spark session and I'm
going to set the format to Kafka so I know what I'm reading from.
That's going to access my Kafka connection,
but I'm going to have to pass it some information so it knows how to connect.
The first thing I'm going to pass it as the name of
the server that's running my Kafka broker.
That's just local host since we're running on a test environment.
Here is the critical part of saying the name of
the topic or the data currently is being streamed to.
This is where we say we want all the data in the topic.
Earliest means, give me everything you
have and we're going to tell it to load that data into the DataFrame.
This is a dataframe that represents the data in the topic in its current state.
Kafka likes to store things in binary,
but we don't like to analyze things in binary.
We like to use strings.
We're going to go ahead and get another DataFrame that extracts out those strings.
The other DataFrame is going to be called gear Position Streaming DF.
We're going to act on
the Gear Position Raw Streaming DF by calling the dot Select Expr function.
Here is where we're going to change the binary key to a string.
In this case, this happens to be our truck Id.
We're going to call it that,
makes it easier for querying later.
We're going to cast the value from Kafka as a string as well instead of binary.
We actually can look at the information and understand it.
This is going to be our Gear Position.
We're going to create our view using this dataframe,
which is now string formatted.
We're going to take that and call the createOrReplaceTempView function.
We're going to call our view Gear Position.
This view is only visible within the SparkSession that's
running right now inside of the program when it starts.
I've just taken the code that I started earlier and pasted that back in here.
This is the Gear Position Select Star DF DataFrame.
I'm just going to pass the results of my select statement into that.
We're saying select star from what?
What's the name of the view that we're querying?
It's right here, it's gear position.
We're going to say select star from gear position.
This will represent all the fields.
That's because that's the query I used.
We could have used a lot of other queries and we're
going to do some more different examples later.
I'm going to take the DataFrame that has all my fields in it.
Now I'm going to send that on to another topic.
Just imagined that I've made a change.
This is why this is important,
because I can now send it onto another system through a new Kafka topic I'm creating.
When we first pulled in our data,
we cast things as strings.
We took the key column and turn it into truck ID for example.
Later we selected all the columns from gear position,
which would include the truck ID and the Gear Position.
We want to take the truck ID now and put it into a key field that Kafka will recognize.
We're going to take truck ID,
cast it as a string,
and we're going to call it,
Key because Kafka expects that field.
Then we're going to cast the gear position as a string,
and we're going to name it Value because
Kafka expects to get a value when we send the data,
we're going to access the right stream.
Before we've accessed read stream,
and that's given us a read from Kafka.
In this case, we're going to take the data frame we want to send.
We're creating another DataFrame by calling this Select Expr.
Then after that call,
we're doing dot right stream,
which is actually accessing the right stream on the DataFrame that came out of this call.
Then we're going to set the format to that right stream as Kafka.
This may look very familiar because it's the same call we did when we read from Kafka.
The next thing we'll match as well.
The option parameter which tells us the server we want to send data to.
This could be different.
If you have multiple servers running with Kafka,
and you had them for different purposes in your organization,
then this server name here might not match this one here,
just depending what your purpose is.
The name of the topic that we're going to create is called Gear Position updates.
This is a new topic and the data that we send will go into that topic.
This is a new parameter here called checkpoint location.
That's one we haven't seen before.
This is a folder and file path that's writable by the Spark worker.
The Spark worker needs to have read,
write permissions to this location.
It's a temp file that's used for the purpose of synchronizing data with Spark,
we're going to run thing the dots start,
which starts our stream.
Then we're going to let it run indefinitely or until told to stop.
I'm saving that file and then I'm going to run the script that will start it.
If cd to spark folder,
I have a script called submit gear position right here.
I'm going to say home, workspacesparksubmitgearposition.sh.
Now it's loading libraries.
It's done with that. It's starting up the spark application.
Now we're waiting for data to spit out.
We have an error.
Invalid usage of star in expression alias.
Okay. It's because I didn't say from,
so that's the problem there.
That was invalid SQL syntax.
That should resolve it.
I'm going to save the file and I'll burrow to run the same script again.
Now we're waiting for the data to output again.
The interesting thing here is because we're not streaming to the console.
You may be expecting to see data coming out.
You won't really see the data unless we do
another command and I'll show you what that is.
This error that it says while fetching metadata and it
says correlation id 1 gear position updates leader not available.
Does this name sound familiar gear position updates?
That's the name of the topic that we're sending data to.
It's saying that that topic doesn't exist yet.
So you just created it in Kafka and it worked.
This is just a normal error to see the first time you use a topic.
Let's go look at the data in the Kafka topic.
I'm going to go to my Kafka installation and I'm going to go to the bin folder.
If I list that I'm going to find a command in here called Kafka-console-consumer.
That's just a command line utility that lets me query a Kafka topic.
Now when I pass the dash dash bootstrap server command you'll notice it's not
plural like it is over here and that's just because you only need to send it one.
I'm going to tell it the name of the topic.
What's the name of the topic again?
I just saw it in my air over here.
It's gear-position-updates.
I'm going to tell it I want data from
the beginning and now we should see the data that's going into Kafka.
It says leader not available so that could mean that Kafka's down as well.
I'm going to just check on that.
Seems to be that all the Kafka processes are running, gear-position-updates.
Now what could be happening is there might not be any data being sent to it right now.
So to check that what we can do is instead of writing to
Kafka we can take and run this to the console instead.
I'm just going to comment out all the steps that
stream in to the Kafka topic and I'm going to
go gear position select "Star DF" and I'm going to write it to the console.
I'm going to say write stream output mode append
format console.start.awaittermination and save that again.
Now, here's an interesting feature of Kafka.
I can have this running the whole time and not have to
worry that it's going to get messed up because it's just talking to Kafka.
So even if I kill my spark job here control C kills it.
You'll notice it's still connected.
This Kafka console is still connected to the Kafka topic.
That's interesting.
Now let's run this again.
I've saved my python file and now we should see data on the console if we're getting any.
Okay. Gear position should be spelled correctly, it's not.
Let's save that file and run it again.
Now we're waiting for output.
There's the data that should be going to Kafka and it is coming out, right?
So I've got trucks and their gear position.
So the gear truck 9841 is in neutral,
2397 is in neutral.
Maybe they're having car wash or something. They're in neutral.
I'm going to kill this and then let's see if we
can find out why it's not streaming to Kafka when we tell it to.
Let's go back to the code that we have
here and I'm going to comment out this one in case we need it later.
We're casting the truck ID which we have here as
a string and then we're calling it key right here.
We are not passing a value.
Even though we said the word value that's not good enough.
It has to be as value.
Notice we didn't get an error.
That is interesting.
Sometimes when you use an expression it assumes you know what you're
doing and it just tries it and if it doesn't work we don't hear back from it.
That's what happened in this case.
We weren't actually sending any values to Kafka and so it wasn't
giving us any over here when we were watching for it.
We've now changed this to as value which should fix that problem.
Now we're going to save this file and run it again.
If it works we should start seeing data over here.
I'm not seeing anything, so I'm going to go check on how my spark job is running.
So it says it's running and we're waiting output.
Well, in theory this should work but let's just kill it and run it again.
Oh, I just realized what I did.
So value was correct and key was not,
so we shouldn't have as inherit off.
Let's try it last time.
It should work. I saved it and we were running it again.
We're going to put those ases back in.
Now this can take up to two minutes so I'm going to be patient this time.
It's 18:01 and four seconds so we should see it by 18:03 and four seconds at the latest.
I just killed the Kafka-console-consumer and we're not seeing any data still from it.
Oh, I see what it is.
I put a dash in the topic name so that shouldn't be there.
The name of our topic is gear-position -updates
so that's what we need it to be called here. There's our data.
We don't end up seeing the keys.
When we do this Kafka-console-consumer it just tells us
the values which is enough to tell us that it's working.
The truck numbers are not showing up here while
if we look at the data before we clearly are passing them.
It's just the per fact that the tool they were given doesn't display that information.
A lot of times when you're dealing with more complex messages,
the key is part of the message.
A lot of times it's not a big deal.
This is perfect. We can see that we're sending data to Kafka.
Here we've looked at how to take data from Kafka and
transform it and then send some more data out to another Kafka topic.
I'm going to kill this by control C that stops processing
that topic and I'm going to kill this spark application by doing control C as well.